Anakin’s early years within the Jedi Order
were quite rough from a social standpoint,
as he barely got along with his fellow classmates
and more often than not got frustrated with
his teachers and those of the High Council,
as they limited his lessons and regularly
reminded him that he was not ready to move
on toward the more advance classes.
This of course caused him to hold some resentment
toward many Masters of the Order as he felt
they were holding him back.
Despite this, there was one Jedi Master that
Anakin actually looked up to and held unmatched
admiration for.
His name was Jorus C’baoth, who despite
holding the Chosen One’s highest admiration
of, was among the more controversial Jedi
among other Masters and those of the High
Council.
Both Anakin’s admiration and the Council’s
uneasiness of C’baoth stemmed from his no
nonsense way of doing things, as well as his
extreme views that the Jedi knew what was
best for those they were supposed to protect,
in that rather than act as sideline peacekeepers,
the Jedi should get involved directly in galactic
politics and just fix the injustices and corruption
themselves.
C’baoth strongly believed that the Jedi’s
unique connection to the Force gave them unparalleled
insight and inherent superiority over all
non-force sensitives, and because of this
gift of theirs it was their responsibility
to create societies and governments that were
most just toward the general populaces, even
if it meant forcibly bringing down current
systems in place.
This Jedi superiority philosophy of his swept
even into how he walked, marching through
crowds with unlimited confidence and expecting
everyone else to step aside as he walked past
them.
He also spoke directly and exactly what was
on his mind, holding nothing back regardless
of what others may have thought of his opinions
on the matter.
On top of his steadfastness, C’baoth was
among the most powerful Jedi of the Order
of his generation.
Along with his extraordinary telekinesis abilities,
he also mastered some extraordinary difficult
powers like Force Meld, where Jedi joined
their minds together through the Force, drawing
strength from each other and becoming a far
more cohesive fighting unit.
When Anakin first met C’baoth he was instantly
taken aback at how different the Jedi Master
was.
He quickly began to admire the man and hoped
to grow up to be just like him when he himself
was given the rank of master.
C’baoth was also among the very few Masters
that continually made note of Anakin’s exceptional
talents and achievements in the Force, even
to the point of making his own Padawan, Lorana
Jinzler, feel bad.
As after hearing her Master’s praise of
Anakin for minutes on end, Lorana soon believed
that compared to Skywalker, she was just an
average Jedi learner in her Master’s eyes.
Unlike the other Masters and those on the
High Council, C’baoth recommend Anakin to
go beyond his limits and never hold back his
potential, a statement that frustrated Obi-Wan
who believed his padawan was far too immature
and impatient to learn far more advanced force
abilities and techniques.
This was very apparent when C’baoth was
planning on teaching Force Meld to Anakin.
As mentioned earlier, Force Meld was an extremely
difficult ability to master and could even
dangerously backfire on inexperienced practitioners.
Because of this, it generally wasn’t taught
to Jedi until they’ve reached Knighthood,
if at all.
But C’baoth didn’t care and wanted to
teach it to Anakin, who at the time was only
in his early teens and had barely began his
formal training as a padawan.
This actually led to a somewhat heated argument
between Obi Wan and C’baoth, as they argued
exactly how high Anakin’s expectations bar
should be.
C’baoth argued that limiting a padawan as
to what they can truly achieve was a complete
waste of their gift of being a force sensitive,
and that limiting what they learn early on
only limits how much good they can do in the
future when they must rely upon their power
to help others.
Obi Wan countered by stating that setting
too high a bar for a padawan, especially when
they are not mature enough, will lead to problems
as they will only experience failure and never
the healthy satisfaction of steady progression
through their achievements.
That a good balance was needed to be found.
Even with the criticisms C’baoth received
on how he did things and his views on the
Jedi Order’s purpose, he still remained
an admirable figure in Anakin’s eyes, who
not only agreed with the Jedi Master’s actions
and views, but also believed he was one that
could do no wrong.
But C’baoth and Anakin’s interactions
quickly came to an end, when the Jedi Master’s
proposal for Outbound Flight was finally approved
by both the Senate and Jedi Council.
Outbound Flight was a project that sought
to colonize the worlds within the Unknown
Regions and ultimately attempt to enter the
next galaxy in order to discover and colonize
possible frontier worlds for the Republic.
The flight included around 50,000 passengers
and crewmen, and 18 Jedi ranging from Masters
to Knights.
When Outbound Flight made its final stop within
Republic controlled space and launched into
the Unknown Regions, C’baoth slowly became
a near dictator within the massive vessel.
He began to ignore the written rules within
the vessel and started to implement his own
way of doing things, even ignoring the captains’
orders who originally had formal leadership
over the vessel according to the Senate.
He then created an unofficial Jedi training
school as he sought out force sensitives within
the 50,000 passengers and convinced the families
to give over their children so that they could
become future Jedi.
It became quite apparent that while C’baoth
did genuinely wish to colonize the Unknown
Regions and enter the next galaxy, he may
have had a secret agenda of creating a second
Jedi Order.
One that would hold his views of how Jedi
should act and look over those they were to
protect.
And either establish this new Jedi Order within
the next galaxy, or even one day return back
to the Republic and possibly overthrow the
old Order with his own.
But these possible plans of his never came
close to fruition, as Outbound Flight was
intercepted by Thrawn who didn’t want the
foreign craft to enter his people’s territory
within the Unknown Regions.
Despite being given a chance to go around
the Chiss’ territory, C’baoth refused
and decided to push on through, even if it
meant initiating a battle.
A battle did ensue, but not in C'baoth’s
favor, as Thrawn was able to disable the main
offensive and defensive components of Outbound
Flight.
Injured and with full realization that he
was defeated, C’baoth fell to the darkside
and began to force choke Thrawn across space
as the two were communicating through their
ships respective channels.
While Thrawn was almost killed, he was saved
when radiation bombs were deployed and fully
destroyed Outbound flight and nearly everyone
on it.
And with that C’baoth’s life came to an
end.
But his legacy did not.
At some point prior to his departure on Outbound
Flight, Palpatine was able to obtain his DNA
and later clone the Jedi Master.
Once fully grown, the clone was turned to
the dark side by Palpatine and tasked in guarding
one of the Emperor’s many secret storehouses.
Eventually the now Grand Admiral Thrawn would
discover the dark Jedi and convince the man
to join him, using him for his campaign against
the New Republic in his attempt to take back
the galaxy for the Empire.
The C’baoth clone would eventually die at
the hands of Mara Jade however, when confronted
by her and Luke Skywalker about a year later.